[MUSIC]
We have an objective for
policy optimization.
We also have the policy gradient theorem,
which gives us a simple expression for
the gradient of that objective.
I this video we'll complete the puzzle
by showing how to estimate this gradient
using the experience of an agent
interacting with the environment.
[SOUND] After watching this video,
you will be able to drive a sample-based
estimate for the gradient of
the average reward objective.
[SOUND] We want to drive a gradient
descent algorithm for our policy.
We have our objective and its gradient
due to the policy gradient theorem.
Now, we need to figure out how
to approximate this gradient.
In fact, what we will do is get
a stochastic sample of the gradient.
Recall this expression for
the gradient of the average reward.
Computing the sum over states
is really impractical.
But we can do the same thing we did when
deriving our stochastic gradient descent
rule for policy evaluation.
We simply make updates from states we
observe while following policy pi.
This gradient from state St
provides an approximation to
the gradient of the average reward.
As we discussed before for
stochastic gradient descent,
we can adjust the weights
with this approximation and
still guarantee you will
reach a stationary point.
This is what the stochastic gradient
descent update looks like for
the policy parameters.
We could stop here but
let's simplify this further.
[SOUND] Let's re-examine this from
a perspective based on expectations.
This will help us simplify the update and
give you more insight into
why the update makes sense.
Notice that the sum over states
waited by mu can be re-written as
an expectation under mu.
Recall that mu is
the stationary distribution for
pi which reflects state
visitation under pi.
In fact, the state's we observe
while following pi are distributed
according to mu.
By computing the gradient from a state St,
we get an unbiased estimate
of this expectation.
Thinking about our stochastic gradient as
an unbiased estimate suggests one other
simplification.
Notice that inside the expectation
we have a sum over all actions.
We want to make this term even simpler and
get rid of the sum over all actions.
If this was an expectation over actions,
we could get a stochastic example of this
two and so avoid summing over all actions.
[SOUND] Here we're going to see how we can
get an unbiased gradient estimate using
only one action 80,
which is the action taken by the agent.
It would be nice if the sum of our
actions was weighted by pi and so
was an expectation under pi.
That way we could sample it using
the agents action selection,
which is distributed according to pi.
It turns out this is
an easy problem to solve.
To get a weighted sum corresponding to
an expectation we can just multiply and
divided by pi of a given s.
Now we have an expectation of over
actions drawn from pi for this term.
[SOUND] The new stochastic gradient
ascent update now looks like this.
As an aside it is common to rewrite this
gradient as the grading of the natural
logarithm of pi.
This is based on a formula from calculus
for the gradient of a logarithm.
Using this rule we get that the gradient
of pi equals the gradient of pi over pi.
So this update is equivalent
to what we started with.
But why do we do this?
One reason is that it is actually simpler
to compute the gradient of the logarithm
of certain distributions.
The other less important reason is simply
that it lets us write this gradient more
compactly.
In the end it is just
a mathematical trick.
So don't let it distract you
from the underlying algorithm.
We now have something that looks like many
of the learning rules used in this course.
We adjust the parameters theta
proportionally to a stochastic gradient of
the objective.
We use a step size parameter alpha to
control the magnitude of the step in that
direction.
So alpha has the same role at always has,
and that's it.
We now have a nice clean update rule
to learn the policy parameters.
[SOUND] The last thing to talk about is
how to actually compute the stochastic
gradient for a given state and action.
We just need two components,
the gradient of the policy and
an estimate of the differential values.
The first is easy.
We know the policy and
this parameterization, and so
can compute its gradient.
The action value can be
approximated in a variety of ways.
For example, we could use a TD algorithm
that learns differential action values.
In an upcoming video we will go through
one particular choice in detail,
as well as how to compute the gradient for
specific policy parameterization.
[SOUND] In this video, we derived
a policy gradient learning rule for
the average reward setting.
In the next video we will
see how to use this rule.